Add before and after steps to Publishing doc (#2044)
alphagov/govuk-frontend: docs/releasing/publishing.md

# Steps you must complete before you release a new version of GOV.UK Frontend

> 1. Raise new issues in the team GitHub repositories ([govuk-frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend), [govuk-prototype-kit](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit)) to:

Reviewer: Should this list include the Frontend Docs repo too? https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend-docs

Author: ```suggestion
1. Raise new issues in the team GitHub repositories ([govuk-frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend), [govuk-frontend-docs](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend-docs), [govuk-prototype-kit](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit)) to:
```

  - create release notes for the new release (example card: [#1986](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/1986))
  - create release notes for the new version of GOV.UK Prototype Kit (example card: [#958](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/958))
  - create a card for the new release of GOV.UK Frontend (example card: [#1987](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/issues/1987))
  - update the GOV.UK Design System to use the new release of GOV.UK Frontend (example card: [#1347](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-design-system/issues/1347))

>   - update the GOV.UK Frontend Docs to use the new release of GOV.UK Frontend (example card: [#75](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend-docs/issues/75))

Author: ```suggestion
  - create a card for the new release of GOV.UK Prototype Kit (example card: [#917](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/917))
```

Author: This suggestion is based on @vanitabarrett's comment above re reversing the order of lines 9 and 10, as you update the Prototype Kit before you release it.

>   - create a card for the new release of GOV.UK Prototype Kit (example card: [#917](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/917))

Author: ```suggestion
- update the GOV.UK Prototype Kit to use the new release (example card: [#923](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/923))
```

Author: This suggestion is based on @vanitabarrett's comment above re reversing the order of lines 9 and 10, as you update the Prototype Kit before you release it.

>   - update the GOV.UK Prototype Kit to use the new release (example card: [#923](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-prototype-kit/issues/923))

Reviewer: I would move this card to be above "create a card for the new release of GOV.UK Prototype Kit" just because that's the order in which you'd do the work - you'd update the prototype kit to use the new version of GOVUK Frontend first and then release a new version of the prototype kit.

Author: The suggestions to reorder these bullets display at the end of this page...

2. Add the issues to the [Design System sprint board](https://github.com/orgs/alphagov/projects/4).

3. Write a summary to post on Slack after the release. For example:

>     🚀 We’ve just released GOV.‌UK Frontend v3.7.0. It's now easier and faster to use our Sass. We've also made improvements to back links, breadcrumbs, lists and the header. Thanks to @SLACK-NAME for helping with this release. [https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.7.0](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.7.0)

Reviewer: Something which came up in the 3.10.0 release is that we have separate release notes for the release of the prototype kit. Is that something we could mention here?

Author: @vanitabarrett Yeah, that sounds good. Maybe we could reword this step as follows?

"Write summaries to post on Slack after the release of both Frontend and Prototype Kit. For example:
🚀 We’ve just released GOV.‌UK Frontend v3.7.0. It's now easier and faster to use our Sass. We've also made improvements to back links, breadcrumbs, lists and the header. Thanks to @SLACK-NAME for helping with this release. https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.7.0
Remember that Prototype Kit needs its own summary, since it has its own release notes."

Author: ```suggestion
    🚀 We’ve just released GOV.‌UK Frontend v3.7.0. It's now easier and faster to use our Sass. We've also made improvements to back links, breadcrumbs, lists and the header. Thanks to @SLACK-NAME for helping with this release. [https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.7.0](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.7.0)
Remember that Prototype Kit needs its own summary, since it has its own release notes.    
```

3. Write a summary to post on Slack after the release. For example:

    🚀 We’ve just released GOV.‌UK Frontend v3.7.0. It's now easier and faster to use our Sass. We've also made improvements to back links, breadcrumbs, lists and the header. Thanks to @SLACK-NAME for helping with this release. [https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.7.0](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases/tag/v3.7.0)

>     Remember that Prototype Kit needs its own summary, since it has its own release notes.

Reviewer: This needs an additional line above it to so it's separate from the example summary above.

Author: ```suggestion

    Remember that Prototype Kit needs its own summary, since it has its own release notes.
```

  ```

10. Create a pull request and copy the changelog text.
   When reviewing the PR, check that the version numbers have been updated and that the compiled assets use this version number.

11. Once the pull request is approved, merge to **master**.

12. Checkout **master** and pull the latest changes.

13. Log into npm (`npm login`), using team [credentials](https://github.com/alphagov/design-system-team-credentials/tree/master/npm/govuk-patterns-and-tools).

14. Run `npm run publish-release`, you will be prompted to continue or cancel.

15. View the created tag in the [Github interface](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend/releases)
  - select the latest tag
  - press 'Edit tag'
  - set "GOV.UK Frontend v[version-number]" as the title
  - add release notes from changelog
  - attach the generated ZIP that has been generated at the root of this project
  - publish release

16. Log out from npm
```bash
npm logout
```

# Steps you must complete after you release a new version of GOV.UK Frontend

1. Update the GOV.UK Design System, Prototype Kit, and Frontend Docs to use a new release of GOV.UK Frontend, and release a new version of the Prototype Kit.

> 2. Post your summary of the release in the [cross-government](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/C6DMEH5R6) and [GDS #govuk-design-system](https://gds.slack.com/archives/CAF8JA25U) Slack channels.

Reviewer: If we're mentioning the separate release notes for the prototype kit in the 'Before' steps, could we split this out to say something like: 

"Post your summary of the GOV.UK Frontend release in the govuk-design-system Slack channels within GDS and x-gov slack."
"Post your summary of the Prototype kit release in the prototype-kit Slack channel on x-gov slack"

Author: ```suggestion
2. Post your summary of the:
- GOV.UK Frontend release in the govuk-design-system channels on [GDS Slack](https://gds.slack.com/archives/CAF8JA25U) and [x-gov Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/C6DMEH5R6)
- Prototype kit release in the [prototype-kit channel](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/C0647LW4R) on x-gov Slack
```
